---
layout: default
title: PowerDNS on Rails
---

PowerDNS on Rails is a "Ruby on Rails":http://www.rubyonrails.com based web application for managing your PowerDNS databases, through the PowerDNS generic MySQL/PostgreSQL backend.

h2. Installation

To install via Git:

# $ git clone git://github.com/kennethkalmer/powerdns-on-rails.git
# $ cd powerdns-on-rails
# Review _config/database.yml_ and modify as needed
# $ rake db:migrate
# $ rake db:seed
# $ ruby script/server
# Point your browser to http://localhost:3000
# Login with 'admin' and 'secret'

*Note on versions:* I don't really believe this project should have version numbers, it will stay at 1 forever. The "master" branch of the public repo will always be stable and fully functional. Github provides RSS feeds for repository activity, and I announce new features and updates on "my blog":http://www.opensourcery.co.za/ and the "PowerDNS mail list":http://mailman.powerdns.com/pipermail/pdns-users/

h2. Overview

PowerDNS on Rails aims to provide a simple web based management platform for PowerDNS systems using the generic MySQL/PostgreSQL backend provided by PowerDNS.

PowerDNS's features include:

* Zone Templates, useful for adding new zones
* Macros, useful for predefining changes and applying them selectively to zones
* Multiple users and admin/owner roles
* Basic reporting
* Integrated searching
* Audit history of domain/RR changes
* Ever growing support for a variety of RR types
* RESTful API for integration into other systems

h2. Sponsors

PowerDNS on Rails development is sponsored by "ISP in a Box":http://www.ispinabox.co.za in form of using company time and resources to build and maintain the project. PowerDNS powers the DNS infrastructure for ISP in a Box.
